What an evening of candid portraiture with me looks like...

[HEADER] TIME

Well first we need to ask the question: When is golden hour? What is the absolutely pinnacle of the evening light? The most optimal time, when the summer sun casts the most elegant, gently balanced light, and from the perfect angle?

And I would say the answer is somewhere around 8:15... 8:22? 8:27? 7:55 to 8:35 relative to summer solstice. 

7:40 gives a striking or piercing highlight which we soften with the 1/4 Black ProMist filter, and after 8:20 gives more of a gentle rich amber, royal, golden backlight, and if you're lucky the last few minutes of sunset around 9 o'clock can give fiery reds and oranges. Shooting an hour covers a wide span of the evening light, giving a great variety of looks.

Comfortably we should walk into the water at 7:50 to start shooting around 8:00, and shooting until 8:45 or when the if the light remains until the sun passes beyond the horizon. But its all relative to the summer solstice. And ultimately, we really just play it by ear.

[HEADER] LOCATION

We meet at one of public access points along Lakeshore. Its secluded, shallow and clean.
I'll bring towels to dry off and some bottled tap water to wash our feets when coming out of the lake. You may want to bring a couple extra towels. 

And also depending on the day we may need to reschedule. If its overcast we can reschedule, and we can take a gamble if the clouds are patchy. A mostly clear day gives us the most reliability. 

[HEADER] ATTIRE

You can come dressed how ever you want, but you may very well be having the single greatest photo ever taken of you... So make it count.

I usually do a button down linen shirt with a pair of tasteful shorts or my swim trunks. You could do suspenders and dresses. For the tight portraits, anything below the midsection doesn't matter. And depending on your height you may be submerged up to as far as your hips or midsection anyways.

Two pieces of advice here.

1. Jewelry and precious metals and trinkets can glint and shine, creating more organic and cultured images through subtle detail created by powerful accessories. 

2. "Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication."

[HEADER] TECHNICAL

I shoot on Kodak Gold 200 or UltraMax 400 in 36 exposure.
Development and scanning is done through Photo Metro, and in case photos come back with something unexpected, I'm prepared to manually rescan myself.

Your receive photos one week from the Friday that follows our shoot. Or perhaps the morning after, as I process photos the same day they are received.

We dont yet offer photo printing. For a couple reasons:
First and foremost it would cost every customer a whole lot more. And also because there's really no better viewing experience than on an OLED mobile phone screen. No print can really compete with the visual clarity and color accuracy of a modern phone screen, I'm afraid. No prints, no headache.

Dynamic pricing based on both cost per shot + a session fee. This allows me to set a lower initial cost, but also balance it out based on how many photos you roughly want, to get a more accurate and fair price. The session fee is more likely to change than the cost per shot.

The most important consideration when planning a shoot with me... 
Remember that film is an imperfect medium.

Your film can get lost, you can get a roll that looks weird or you can get back bad scans, or have the lab chemically obliterate photos during processing. Anything can happen, which is why I quality assure the product and offer reshoots until I'm fully satisfied and I have delivered the perfect photo. A that leads to the philosophy...

Because I'm using film, you're shouldn't expect to see 18 or 25 or 36 photos. 36 exposures to a roll of film is actually kind of a lot, and its hard to get through. Film Photography is slow and deliberate, so, instead,  with me you should expect to get like 10-14? Maybe up to 18 if you've got more than a pair of people. A family shoot might get 24-30 photos.  The shots are 4$ a piece so you can gauge how much it will cost you over your session fee. 

[HEADER] THE PHILOSOPHY



The general philosophy is...

Remember that film is an imperfect medium.

One or two might be completely unusable or unflattering, due to incorrect metering or someone blinking. 3 or 4 might pretty alright photos. One or two that might be really great photos, but having little imperfections, and then you might have a couple that look very similar.

But IDEALLY...

There should be ONE photo (or two), that stands out amongst all others. One photo that captures the subject in a gentle and heavenly light and exudes and conveys their character and the essence of who they are. The final photo is expected to be flattering, authentic, heroic, and an all around, a once in a life time photo that can live on as a memento, for you to cherish. A snapshot of who this person was.

I like to think that having a solid plan, almost a formula, supported by advanced visual techniques, can increase the amount of absolute flawless and exquisite 1 of 1 photos.

So try to have the mindset that...THATS what you're paying for, not a collection of photos. You're paying for the one. The money shot. The chef's kiss. The rest are all just extras. And if I dont get that shot we'll meet again on my dime or at the very least at a discounted rate until we do get that shot.

A picture that truly immortalizes you in a statis of time and space. A picture that captures the essence of the human spirit. And a picture leaves you with an everlasting memento that you can cherish with your family and your legacy for years to come.

Thanks for the read
Jim